### What is Data?

Data is different types of information that usually is formatted in a particular manner. All the software is divided into two major categories, and those are programs and data. Programs are the set of instructions which perform operations on data to get some results or we can say programs are used to manipulate data. So without data there is no need for instruction or program. The term `Data` is used in many places like Data Structure, Database, Data warehouse, Big data. Let's understand each of them.

### Data Structure

Data Structure is a way to store and organize data so that it can be used efficiently. Here, we have used the word efficiently, which in terms of both space and time complexity.

But the question is where & when we should store & organize the data? Answer is inside the main memory(RAM) and during the execution of a program we can store & organize the data. It means every application will have a set of instructions which will perform operations on data. Hence data is mandatory and as we know data & program both are stored in the main memory itself. So during the execution of a program how the program will manage data inside the main memory and perform the operations on data that is nothing but Data Structure.

### Database

As we know while execution of the program data is kept inside the main memory but it has some limitations like

1. We cannot store large data inside the RAM.
2. This is temporary storage. Means after completion of the program or exit from the application we shall lose the data.
3. This is a costlier hardware device.

Generally when the data is larger in size or commercial data that is used in businesses like banks, ecommerce, health care, manufacturing firms, etc they will have a lot of data. So we need a storage device which can store large amounts of data and can store the data permanently and should be less costlier than the RAM. So Hard Disk storage is the best choice here. As these data can have relationships with each other, it will be very difficult to maintain the relationship among the data if we are simply storing it as a file(like txt, csv, excel, docx, etc). Hence to fulfill this requirement we need to have an external software that maintains the relationship and storing & retrieval operation will be efficient either manually or programmatically. That is nothing but a database.

Now, if any application program is using that database then that data has to be brought into the main memory then only we can use it. So again we need data structure here.

### Data warehouse

As we know commercial data contains large amounts of data and the data size is not constant. It will be growing day by day.

So these large amounts of data may not be used daily, right? A business company can have 1 year old data. Some of them can have 10 year old data that may not be used frequently. So commercial data can be categorized into two parts

1. Operational data
2. Legacy data/Old data/Historical data

Operational data that is used frequently and Legacy data can be kept as storage somewhere but when required we can fetch that data and use it. As these historical data are large in nature one disk is not enough to store 10 years of data. Hence we need an array of disks. This is nothing but a data warehouse.

Generally a data warehouse is specially designed for data analytics, which involves reading large amounts of data to understand relationships and trends across the data. Most commercial firms will have their own data warehouses.

### Big Data

Big Data is a collection of data that is huge in volume, yet growing exponentially with time. It is data with such huge size and complexity that none of traditional data management tools can store it or process it efficiently. Big data is also data but with huge size. Big data is a term applied to datasets whose size or type is beyond the ability of traditional relational databases to capture, manage and process the data with low latency. Big data has one or more of the following characteristics: high volume, high velocity or high variety. Artificial intelligence (AI), mobile, social and the Internet of Things (IoT) are driving data complexity through new forms and sources of data. For example, big data comes from sensors, devices, video/audio, networks, log files, transactional applications, web, and social media — much of it generated in real time and at a very large scale.

<div align="right">
   <b><a href="02.%20Memory%20Layout.md">Next</a></b>
</div>
