ADT stands for Abstract Data Type. Let's divide this term in two parts. Abstract & Data Type and understand each of them separately.

1.  Data Type is defined in two terms.

    1. Representation of data(How data is stored into the memory)
    2. Operation on data(What operation is allowed in data)

    Let's take an example. As we know `int` data type takes either 2 or 4 bytes of memory depending on various factors like 32/64 bit OS, compiler, etc. The structure of the int data types is divided into 2 parts.

    1. Sign bit part
    2. Data part

    The most significant bit(MSB) is reserved for the sign bit and the remaining bits are for the data part. So this is the representation of the `int` data type.

2.  Abstract

    Now what are the operations allowed in `int` data type? We can perform Arithmetic operation(+,-,/,\*, %), Relational Operator(<, >, <=, >=, !=, ==), etc.

    Abstract means hiding internal details. To perform the above operations we don't need to know how they are stored in the binary form inside the main memory. We are only concerned about declaring a variable and using it. Without knowing them we can use them. As these things are hidden from us we can call them as Abstract. Without knowing internal details We can use it. So internal details are Abstract for us.

This is the concept of ADT. Define the data & operations together and let it be used as data type by hiding all the internal details. We can define these data & operations in a `class` in C++ or in any other Object Oriented Programming language. In simple terms we can say creating a class and using it is nothing but an Abstract Data Type.